GMG GM. What's going on everyone?
Welcome to your daily digest for
Tuesday, May 6th, 2025, where I bring
you fact-based, nonensational, objective
information about what's going on in the
broader blockchain and cryptocurrency
space. I am coming back from a week in
Dubai at Token 2049. So, I'm quite
jet-lagged. Let's get this rolling.
The FIT 21 successor bill has been put
forth for a draft commentary by the
House Financial Services Committee and
House A Committee. This is a new version
that aims to clear the to set clear
boundaries between crypto jurisdictions
of the CFTC and SEC and this will be
discussed amongst h the US House of
Representatives today. Uh, US crypto
lawyer Gabe Shapiro went through the 200
plus pages of the bill and shared some
of his insights. Overall, there are good
things and there are bad things, but he
wanted to highlight three key areas that
need to be addressed and improved so
that there isn't an Achilles heel for
the crypto industry. The first is that
tokens are not sufficiently clarified,
not to be traditional regulated assets.
The second problem he identified
is there's no real protections for or
clarity about DeFi. And lastly, that
decentralization has an unclear
philosophical role and enforcement
mechanism within the bill. Another great
kind of review came from Justin
Slaughter. Um, and they pointed out a
cool um, update to the bill which
basically said that any affiliated
person who has more than 1% of a digital
commodity issued by the project uh, must
be identified. This has been dropped
down from 5% earlier. So, we get to know
who the early onset whales are. Moving
on, Van Eek has filed for a BNB ETF,
which will be the first in the US. In
corporate strategies, Micro Strategy has
bought more Bitcoin, another 1,895
Bitcoin for 180 million totaling
555,400 Bitcoin for Strategy. Uh the
company has acquired 555 plus Bitcoin
for around $ 38 billion and is in a
paper gain of about 14.2 2
billion. In other corporate strategies,
DeFi Development Corp. bought 11.2
million more dollars worth of Salana,
pushing its holdings to slightly above
400,000. And we saw in slightly good
news, Ethereum based investment products
witnessing inflows for a second
consecutive week. Though by the recent
numbers I just shared, it might not be
impressive. Uh between April 27th and
May 2nd, uh the ETHbased ETFs have seen
$149 million in
inflows, which
um totals about 336 million since the
end
of April. So cool to see some Ethereum
positive Ethereum movement. Um,
Australia just underwent its elections
and the industry has called for its
incumbent government to pay attention to
crypto and blockchain policy and um the
government says that it will um much
like here in the states the first 100
days really matters. So, there's going
to be potential legislation on tokens,
stable coins, and also a tokenization
sandbox, which would be really cool to
see. Um, some more regulatory and
legislative guidance on how projects can
locate in various different
jurisdictions around the world and
safely launch their products. Speaking
of safety, the Salana devs fixed a
zeroday bug that would have allowed
malicious actors to mint unlimited
amounts of certain types of tokens. The
token 22 standard, which is called
extension tokens, leverages zero
knowledge proofs for private transfers,
and aims to enable advanced
functionality. Um, there was a
vulnerability found in token 22
confidential tokens that was first
identified approximately three weeks ago
and two patches were deployed to resolve
the issues. Um, congratulations on the
Salana network for identifying and
fixing this problem. A lot of crypto and
blockchain folks are claiming that there
was collusion and centralization amongst
the validator networks and how quickly
that this was passed. Um, but ultimately
I think when there's a lot of validators
that recognize there's an issue, it's
easy for them to come together and fight
to implement a solution. So I wouldn't
necessarily listen to the cries of
centralization amongst the folks of
crypto
Twitter in crime season. Uh, this is
just a wild story on Cointelegraph.
We're going to link it in our Reddit
post for today's Daily Digest that
basically highlighted how a $243 million
Bitcoin scam led to one of the scamming
malicious actors parents getting
kidnapped while they were driving to
look for uh a new house whilst flaunting
their son's wealth by driving a really
expensive car. Um, long story short,
we're starting to see a lot of in-person
crimes for folks who are suspected of
having a lot of money. So, A, if you do
make a bunch of money, don't talk about
it on the internet. And B, folks, let's
practice stealth wealth. We don't need
to be walking around flaunting any gains
that you may or may not have seen. Um,
it's just going to open unwanted
attraction towards you. Really, go check
out the story. It's wild. It's It sounds
like the plot of a movie. Um,
additionally, in crime, uh, the suspect
in approximately $190 million in a nomad
hack will be extradited to the US. Um,
the Russian national, Russian Israeli
citizen, Alexander Gurovich, uh, stole
$2.89 $89 million worth of tokens from
the Nomad Bridge in August 2022, which
inspired and emboldened dozens of
copycat hackers to steal the rest of the
sum of the $190 million in tokens. Um,
Gurovich was recently found in Israel
traveling under a false identity and he
will be extradited to the US to face a
trial of his peers and potentially get
convicted. In other news as we wrap up,
there's been more Tether minted on Tron,
and there's nearly the same amount of
Tether minted on Tron as there is in
Ethereum, which has been a race that the
two chains have been going back and
forth on, where Tron was in the lead in
2022 and 2024, but Ethereum regained it.
Um, and lastly, RIP to Florida's
strategic Bitcoin reserve. That bill has
been taken off the table and recently
the governor of Arizona vetoed the bill
for a a strategic Bitcoin reserve for
the state of Arizona. So if you want to
keep up to date with this or any daily
digest we've released while I've not
been traveling, head over to our
back/smarteconomy podcast where you can
keep up to date with all of the daily
digests as well as our bimonthly podcast
episodes and weekly Twitter spaces. All
that said, have a great day and I'll
catch you next time. Cheers.